---
id: 141
title: 'ES6 &#8211; Symbol'
#date: 2018-01-03T14:01:07+00:00
author: Luhao
summary: The data type "symbol" is a primitive data type having the quality that, values of this type can be used to make object properties that are anonymous.
layout: post
#guid: http://flywithfan.net/?p=141
#permalink: /javascript/141/
categories:
  - Frontend
tags:
  - javascript
---
## What is Symbol?

The data type &#8220;symbol&#8221; is a primitive data type having the quality that, values of this type can be used to make **object properties** that are anonymous.

This data type is used as the key for an object property when the property is intended to be **private**, for the internal use of a class or an object type. The symbol data type is highly specialized in purpose, and remarkable for its lack of versatility; an instance of Symbol can be assigned to an L-value, it can be examined for identity, and that&#8217;s all; no other operators apply.

A value having the data type &#8220;symbol&#8221; can be referred to as a &#8220;symbol value.&#8221; In the JavaScript run-time environment, a symbol value is created by invoking the function

> Symbol() 

which dynamically produces an **anonymous, unique value**. The only sensible usage is to store the symbol and then use the stored value to create an object property.

The following example stores the symbol in a &#8220;var&#8221;.

<pre class="line-numbers prism-highlight" data-start="1"><code class="language-javascript">var  myPrivateMethod  = Symbol();
this[myPrivateMethod] = function() {...};
</code></pre>

### Feature:

When a symbol value is used as the identifier in a property assignment, the property (like the symbol) is anonymous; and also is non-enumerable. Because the property is **non-enumerable**, it will not show up as a member in the loop construct &#8220;for( &#8230; in &#8230;)&#8221;, and because the property is anonymous, it will not show up in the result array of &#8220;Object.getOwnPropertyNames()&#8221;.

The property can be accessed by using the original symbol value that created it, or by iterating on the result array of &#8220;Object.getOwnPropertySymbols() &#8220;. In the prior code example, access to the property will be through the value that was stored in the myPrivateMethod variable.

### Attention：

The built in function &#8220;Symbol()&#8221; is an incomplete class that returns a symbol value when called as a function, that throws an error upon attempts to use it as a constructor with the syntax &#8220;new Symbol()&#8221;, that has static methods for accessing JavaScript&#8217;s global symbol table, and that has static properties for addressing certain symbols that are present in commonly used objects.

The methods that access the global symbol registry are &#8220;Symbol.for()&#8221; and &#8220;Symbol.keyFor()&#8221;

The method Symbol.for(&#8220;tokenString&#8221;) returns a symbol value from the registry, and Symbol.keyFor(symbolValue) returns a token string from the registry; each is the other&#8217;s inverse, so the following is true:

<pre class="line-numbers prism-highlight" data-start="1"><code class="language-javascript">Symbol.keyFor(Symbol.for("tokenString"))=="tokenString";  // true
</code></pre>

## Purpose

The Symbol() function and the symbol values it creates might be useful to programers designing a custom class. Symbol values provide a way by which custom classes can create private members, and maintain a symbol registry that pertains just to that class. A custom class can use symbol values to create &#8220;own&#8221; properties that are shielded from unwanted, casual discovery. Within the class definition, the dynamically created symbol value is saved to a scoped variable, available only privately within the class definition. There is no token string; the scoped variable plays the equivalent role of a token.

> Symbol type is a new feature in ECMAScript 2015 and there is no ECMAScript 5 equivalent for symbol. 

## Others

The typeof operator can help you to identify symbols.

<pre class="line-numbers prism-highlight" data-start="1"><code class="language-javascript">typeof Symbol() === 'symbol'
typeof Symbol('foo') === 'symbol'
typeof Symbol.iterator === 'symbol'
</code></pre>

Some things to note when working with type conversion of symbols.

  * When trying to convert a symbol to a number, a TypeError will be thrown
  
    (e.g. +sym or sym | 0).
  * When using loose equality, Object(sym) == sym returns true.
  * Symbol(&#8220;foo&#8221;) + &#8220;bar&#8221; throws a TypeError (can&#8217;t convert symbol to string). This prevents you from silently creating a new string property name from a symbol, for example.
  * The &#8220;safer&#8221; String(sym) conversion works like a call to Symbol.prototype.toString() with symbols, but note that new String(sym) will throw.

### Properties

Symbol.length
  
Length property whose value is 0.

Symbol.prototype
  
Represents the prototype for the Symbol constructor.

### Built-in symbols

In addition to your own symbols, JavaScript has some built-in symbols which represent internal language behaviors which were not exposed to developers in ECMAScript 5 and before. These symbols can be accessed using the following properties:

#### Iteration symbols

  * Symbol.iterator
  
    A method returning the default iterator for an object. Used by for&#8230;of.</p> 
  * Symbol.asyncIterator
  
    A method that returns the default AsyncIterator for an object. Used by for await of.

##### Regular expression symbols

  * Symbol.match
  
    A method that matches against a string, also used to determine if an object may be used as a regular expression. Used by
  
    String.prototype.match().

  * Symbol.replace
  
    A method that replaces matched substrings of a string. Used by String.prototype.replace().

  * Symbol.search
  
    A method that returns the index within a string that matches the regular expression. Used by String.prototype.search().

  * Symbol.split
  
    A method that splits a string at the indices that match a regular expression. Used by String.prototype.split().

##### Other symbols

  * Symbol.hasInstance
  
    A method determining if a constructor object recognizes an object as its instance. Used by instanceof.

  * Symbol.isConcatSpreadable
  
    A Boolean value indicating if an object should be flattened to its array elements. Used by Array.prototype.concat().

  * Symbol.unscopables
  
    An object value of whose own and inherited property names are excluded from the with environment bindings of the associated object.

  * Symbol.species
  
    A constructor function that is used to create derived objects.

  * Symbol.toPrimitive
  
    A method converting an object to a primitive value.

  * Symbol.toStringTag
  
    A string value used for the default description of an object. Used by Object.prototype.toString().

* * *

#### Examples

**_Symbol.hasInstance_**

<pre class="line-numbers prism-highlight" data-start="1"><code class="language-javascript">class Even {
  static [Symbol.hasInstance](obj) {
    return Number(obj) % 2 === 0;
  }
}

// equal to this:
const Even = {
  [Symbol.hasInstance](obj) {
    return Number(obj) % 2 === 0;
  }
};


1 instanceof Even // false
2 instanceof Even // true
12345 instanceof Even // false

</code></pre>

**_Symbol.replace_**

<pre class="line-numbers prism-highlight" data-start="1"><code class="language-javascript">String.prototype.replace(searchValue, replaceValue)
// equal to 
searchValue[Symbol.replace](this, replaceValue)
</code></pre>

<pre class="line-numbers prism-highlight" data-start="1"><code class="language-javascript">const x = {};
x[Symbol.replace] = (...s) =&gt; console.log(s);

'Hello'.replace(x, 'World') // ["Hello", "World"]
</code></pre>

LINKS:

[symbol](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol)
  
[glossary-symbol](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Symbol)
  
[ECMAScript 6 Symbol](http://es6.ruanyifeng.com/#docs/symbol)